---Descriptions---

Designed to be 100% printable.

This is marked as a work in progress because:
It has not been tested with ABS.
The Elastic based spring is untested.
When I printed the one pictured I found some small clearance issues. All of those issues have been fixed.

Video youtube.com/watch?v=qOLgTgvXPc8

The box measures 100mm x 100mm x 100mm

The Spring
youtube.com/watch?v=GhlY8ZkFTvE
The spring shown in the video is "Spring_1.stl" it is printed in PLA with infill turned OFF.

I have also included a few different versions that should work in ABS. They do not work in PLA because they end up breaking when printed thicker than one filament wide.

"Spring_2.stl" is thin walled as to be able to printed with infill turned ON.

"Spring_2.1.stl is similar to Spring_2.stl but skeinforge should do a better job slicing it.

"Spring_2.2.stl is my final attempt to get skeinforge to print this in one continuous thread as opposed to jumping around all over the place.

Vitamin Springs (alternate to printed spring)
If the printable spring seem like to much of a risk you can use one of the following.

Elastic band powered spring. Requires 4 elastic bands.
Included in plates marked "Elastic" as well as in the individual files

Or a metal 50mm (2") outside diameter spring with a length of 80mm (3.25")

File organization
100x100_ABS.zip Includes printing plates for a 100x100mm build surface with "Spring_2.2.stl" as the spring. (three plates)

100x100_Elastic.zip Includes printing plates for a 100x100mm build surface with "Elastic powered spring" as the spring. (three plates)

200x200_ABS_plate.stl Includes all the parts and "Spring_2.2.stl" as the spring on one plate.

200x200_Elastic_plate.stl Includes all the parts and "Elastic powered spring" as the spring on one plate.

200x200_PLA.zip Includes 1 plate containing all the parts except the spring. And "Spring_1.stl" which needs to be printed separately with Infill turned off.

Individual_parts.zip includes all the parts separately.

How it works
The crank handle is connected to a five to one gear reduction that moves a cam to release the lid and let "Jack" pop up after one to five turns of the handle.

Jack
I have not included a Jester for the box as most people will want to choose something personal to them.

---Instructions---

Push the round end of the latch arm into the socket in the bottom of the box with the spring facing the front of the box.

Slide cam gear into position and insert cam shaft through hole in side of box. (should be tight in gear not box)

Slide compound gear gear into position and install compound gear shaft through hole in side of box. (should be loose in gear and lock into box)

Install crank gear through the last hole and install the handle on the shaft. Should be a tight fit.

Snap lid on to box.

Install spring and "Jack"

A small drop of glue (hot glue) is required to hold in the spring.

Print your favourite head on thingiverse to mount to the spring (use a small amount of hot glue to hold it in place).

Elastic spring instructions
Install one elastic in bottom of the elastic spring tube by looping the ends of the elastic over the lugs cut out of the sides of the tube.

Install three elastics across top of spring tube over lugs.

Align piston with elastics and push down to bottom of tube.

With piston at the bottom of the tube insert the piston clip over bottom elastic and into hole in piston.

Secure piston clip with wedge. 
